.TH TURKMAN 1 "June 2025" "Turkman v0.4.x" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
turkman \- Turkish man page viewer for Linux commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B turkman
[\fIOPTION\fR] [\fICOMMAND\fR]
.br
.B turkman
.B manpage
\fICOMMAND\fR
.br
.B turkman
.B db
{\fBinit\fR|\fBsync\fR}
.br
.B turkman
{\fBversion\fR|\fBupdate\fR|\fBuninstall\fR}
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B turkman
is a tool for displaying Turkish translations of Linux command man pages.
It provides Turkish man pages from multiple sources including local system,
SQLite database, and GitHub repository.

Turkman searches for translations in the following priority order:
.IP 1. 4
Local Turkish man pages (/usr/share/man/tr/)
.IP 2. 4
Local SQLite database (~/.turkmandb/turkman.db)
.IP 3. 4
GitHub translation repository (mmapro12/turkmandb)

The program displays the Turkish translation if found for the specified command,
otherwise it reports an error message.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B turkman \fICOMMAND\fR
Display Turkish man page for the specified command. This is the basic usage form.
.TP
.B turkman manpage \fICOMMAND\fR
Explicitly display man page for the specified command. Same functionality as \fBturkman COMMAND\fR.
.TP
.B turkman version
Show current Turkman version and latest available version information.
.TP
.B turkman update
Update Turkman to the latest version. Requires sudo privileges.
.TP
.B turkman uninstall
Completely remove Turkman from the system. Requires sudo privileges.
.TP
.B turkman db init
Initialize local SQLite database and create necessary table structures.
.TP
.B turkman db sync
Synchronize latest translations from GitHub repository to local database.
Requires internet connection.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version information.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B turkman ls
Display Turkish man page for the \fBls\fR command.
.TP
.B turkman grep
Display Turkish man page for the \fBgrep\fR command.
.TP
.B turkman manpage systemctl
Display Turkish man page for the \fBsystemctl\fR command.
.TP
.B turkman db sync
Download latest translations from GitHub repository and save to local database.
.TP
.B turkman version
Show current version information and latest version:
.RS
.nf
Turkman CLI v0.4.2
Latest version v0.4.3
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /opt/turkman/
Turkman installation directory. Main program files are located here.
.TP
.B /opt/turkman/turkman.py
Main program file.
.TP
.B /opt/turkman/version.txt
Current version information file.
.TP
.B ~/.turkmandb/
User-specific Turkman directory. Local database is stored here.
.TP
.B ~/.turkmandb/turkman.db
SQLite database file. Local cache of translations.
.TP
.B /usr/share/man/tr/
System Turkish man pages directory. Priority translation source.
.TP
.B /tmp/\fICOMMAND\fR.man
Temporary man files. Translations retrieved from database are temporarily stored here.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
Turkman uses standard man command environment variables:
.TP
.B MANPATH
Specifies directories to search for man pages.
.TP
.B LANG, LC_ALL
Specifies language settings. Important for Turkish man pages.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
Command not found or translation not available.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid argument or parameter.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B manpages-tr
Turkish man pages package.
.TP
.B python3
Python 3 interpreter (required).
.TP
.B python3-requests
Python module for HTTP requests.
.TP
.B python3-typer
Python module for CLI interface.
.TP
.B git
Version control system (for installation and updates).
.TP
.B curl
HTTP file download tool (for installation).
.SH BUGS
Known bugs and limitations:
.IP \(bu 2
Currently only works on Debian-based Linux distributions.
.IP \(bu 2
Some complex man pages may have formatting issues.
.IP \(bu 2
Only local sources are available when internet connection is not available.
.IP \(bu 2
Memory usage may increase for very large man pages.

Bug reports: https://github.com/mmapro12/turkman/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Turkman was developed by mmapro12.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2025 mmapro12. Licensed under GPL-3.0 license.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR man (1),
.BR manpages-tr (7),
.BR sqlite3 (1),
.BR git (1),
.BR curl (1)

Turkman documentation: https://github.com/mmapro12/turkman
.br
Translation repository: https://github.com/mmapro12/turkmandb
